In this video, we'll discuss common third-party libraries
that you can use to support your blockchain development needs,
and then round it out by discussing considerations when choosing a third-party library.
As developers, we know that using third-party libraries carries several benefits.
First, we don't need to recreate code.
Also, it allows us to take advantage of vetted code,
and it makes our code cleaner.
You learn how to take advantage of RESTful frameworks to use HTTP to obtain data.
Now, what about other third-parties to help
us interface with other aspects of the blockchain platform?
To interact with external services,
there are a few options to configure our codebase tool set.
The first option is to create our own functions and
organize these functions into a library that can be accessed with our codebase.
The second option is to use a proven third-party library.
The second option is more attractive as it saves development time,
and often, increase the security.
Of course, this will depend on the age
of the third-party library along with its community support.
Let's use our past experience with Bitcoin Core and discover solution to
interact with the Bitcoin RPC functions utilizing our RESTful framework in Node.
Remember that RPC stands for remote procedure calls,
which describes the system when you send a command to a remote system,
where it's processed and the results are returned back.
An example of an RPC function that you used before in
Bitcoin Core's debug console is verifymessage.
This function takes in an address, a signature,
and a message, and returns back true or false,
whether or not the signatures verified.
To reiterate, what we want to do is find
a NodeJS third-party library that will
allow us to interact with Bitcoin Core's RPC function.
There have been a number of third-party libraries created to wrapped RPC interface.
If we just open up Google,
and do a simple search for NodeJS Bitcoin Core,
the first we always see is Bitcoin Core Node package.
This package or library can interface with RPC,
execute wallet operations, and query the network in the blockchain,
which is everything that we're looking for.
If we scroll down that page a little bit,
we see that GitHub repo,
how to install it using npm as well as how to include it using require Bitcoin Core.
Even further down on that page,
you'll see a state that all RPC methods are exposed to
the client interface as a CamelCase version of those available in Bitcoind.
Knowing that, here's a code snippet of what are verified message RPC
method that we've seen before in the debug console would look like as a function in Node.
I've included this code snippet down below.
Notice here is a CamelCase version of what we use in Bitcoin Core.
It also takes in the same parameters,
an address, a signature,
and a message, and returns back true or false whether or not that signature is verified.
We won't get into the implementation mechanics in this section just yet.
I'm showing you this to demonstrate how we can
find third-party libraries that support your blockchain Web Service needs.
Later in this course, you'll get a chance to
implement out similar features on your own private blockchain.
Now, we just saw one common third-party library, specifically for Bitcoin.
There are many other ones for other platforms such as ethereumjs-util.
As the overview page states,
it's a collection of utility functions for Ethereum.
It can be used in NodeJS or it can be used in the browser with browserify.
It's also a pretty active package with over 3,000 weekly downloads.
I'd like you to take some time to think
of two more blockchain platforms that you find interesting,
and search for some popular third-party libraries you could use when developing for them.
You might be surprised at the community of developers
already at work building out tools for these platforms.
One last thing to call when choosing a library,
do a security check.
What I mean by this is look into how often it is updated.
You don't want to pick a library that's older and neglected in a newer framework.
Doing so, you run the risk that if there are problems with the code,
it likely won't get fixed,
and you either need to do unwanted workarounds,
or have to scratch your efforts,
and start all over again.
Here's a recap of what we covered.
We discussed some common third-party libraries for Node,
and explored a simple use case of how to use
one for Bitcoin Core to wrap RPC functionality.
We ended by discussing considerations when choosing a library.
Like I mentioned before,
take some time to think up two more blockchain platforms you find interesting,
and search for some popular third-party libraries you could use for developing with them.
Not only will this help you sharpen your skills to discover useful,
healthy and well-maintained third-party libraries,
it could save you some time down the road
if you ever do want to develop for these platforms.